Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
[narrator] It is the first and
most highly documented alien
abduction story ever told.
Betty and Barney Hill.
a couple in love were driving
back from their honeymoon...
when they were kidnapped
by a UFO.
Now clasp your hands
in front of you.
As they get tighter.
you're going to sleep.
You're going to a deep.
deep sleep. Your eyes...
[narrator] Rare interviews
under hypnosis.
detail how alien beings
subjected the couple
to disturbing experiments.
[narrator]
Newly uncovered evidence
and declassified government
documents confirm
what happened to Betty
and Barney was real.
[narrator] We are not alone.
Extraterrestrials do exist.
But what do they want from us?
It was just an ordinary day
in America.
Betty. a social worker and
Barney. a US postal employee
were driving home after their
honeymoon in Niagara Falls.
A trip as their niece
Kathleen explains.
they would never forget.
Betty and Barney had
a wonderful time
in Niagara Falls.
They spent the following
afternoon in Montreal.
They thought about spending
the night downtown.
But they heard that there
was a hurricane
whirling up the coast.
And they wanted to drive
through the night
if they could.
I was 13 years old
and I had arrived home
from school in the afternoon.
My mother was on the phone
with my aunt. Betty.
And I heard my mother's side
of the conversation.
When my mother hung up
the phone.
she told me
that Betty and Barney
had seen a flying saucer
up close the night before.
they were concerned that they
might have been contaminated.
I was in shock.
I thought this was
very. very strange.
[narrator]
This is a 1966 radio interview
with Betty and Barney
in their own words.
Now. as I understand it.
we have to go back to 1961
to start this.
this whole incident. don't we?
Yes. that's right.
September 19th. 1961.
[narrator] The night that
changed their lives forever.
Betty had never seen
a satellite before.
She knew that her father was
very interested in satellites.
And so. Betty wondered
could this be a satellite?
But then. she thought.
no. it's not behaving
like a satellite.
[Barney speaking]
It's clear at this point.
this was not a satellite.
It does a circle.
It seems to fly away to the
west and then come back
directly towards them.
Barney is coming up
with the other explanations.
Maybe it's a passenger jet.
Maybe it's a military
helicopter.
He's got all these
explanations because
that's how he thinks.
Privately. he knew
that this was unusual.
But he said to Betty.
"Oh. it's just a piper cub
or a commercial airliner.
Don't even think about that
and let's get home.
[narrator] But then. as they
continue driving south.
Betty notices the aircraft
appears to be stalking them.
Betty said to Barney.
"It's coming closer. Barney."
As they looked at it.
it flew in a zigzag pattern
and then it appeared to bounce
back and forth in the sky
like a ping-pong ball.
[narrator]
Barney starts to panic.
Up until now. the sighting
had been at quite a distance.
But now that they've driven
down the road. several miles
and they look up.
And it's still there.
Fear starts to settle in.
It knows that we're here.
They're thinking this has
a particular interest in us.
There's no other cars
on the highway.
And this light is getting
brighter and it's getting
closer.
[narrator]
The object. the metallic disc.
the width and length
of a commercial airliner
and as flat as a pancake
is now hovering over the road.
Stunned and with nowhere
to go. Barney stops the car.
Barney is now determined.
he's boiled over
not just with curiosity.
but almost a sense of duty.
I can't continue this trip
until we get rid of this thing
or find out what it wants.
So he gets out of the car
and he starts walking
in the field to approach it.
[Kathleen] Barney is
a confirmed skeptic.
Barney does not believe
that this planet could
possibly be visited by space
aliens from elsewhere.
[narrator]
And then he sees them.
Gray uniform
beings looking down.
He sees occupants inside
of the craft. which is now
tilted towards him.
[Kathleen] They're dressed
in shiny black uniforms.
They were gray in complexion.
They were completely hairless.
They had eyes
that wrapped around
to the sides of their faces
larger than human eyes.
[Ben] We would describe
this as a Close Encounters
of the Third Kind.
The witness is not just
seeing it at a distance.
but they're actually seeing
occupants within the.
or outside of the craft.
And windows are now visible
with the occupants
looking at Barney
who's staring at them
through binoculars.
There's a direct.
it seems. communication
as if to say we came for you
and we're not going to be
satisfied until we get
what we want.
Little red lights started
to slide out from the craft
on fin-like structures.
And something started to drop
down from the bottom
of the craft.
[Ben] Suddenly. Barney sees
what appears to be a ramp
or a ladder.
And now. it seems like
the craft is transforming
as someone is planning
to come out.
[narrator] Sensing danger.
Barney rushes back to the car.
Barney somehow knew
that there was a plan
and that that plan
was to capture him
like. "a bug in a net."
They had to get out of there
or they were going
to be captured.
[narrator]
But it's already too late.
[narrator] A close encounter
with a UFO sends Barney Hill
and his wife. Betty.
into a panic.
[Bryce] Betty and Barney
are now on the run.
They know that something
is there that's not supposed
to be there.
They know it's some kind
of flying saucer.
They know that there are
creatures inside it.
[narrator]
The beeps are unlike anything
they have ever heard.
[narrator] Suddenly.
a tingling sensation comes
over both Betty and Barney.
Then silence.
As if suspended in a dream.
[Kathleen] As if only a moment
had passed.
Betty and Barney heard another
series of buzzing sounds.
This time.
they didn't see the craft.
But it returned them
to full consciousness.
And they realized that they
were 35 miles down the highway
with very little memory
of what had occurred
in the interim.
When people see extraordinary
things. they can often be
in denial.
You'd have to say that that
is possibly the case
with Barney Hill.
He's still not believing it.
even though he's seen it
with his own eyes.
[narrator]
After arriving home.
the Hills remain puzzled.
They're both feeling
a little creeped out.
You know how you feel grimy
after a long trip?
They feel that.
but it's a little different.
[Ben] Betty notices that her
dress has been ripped.
She only bought this dress
just before and this is the
first time she's ever worn it.
She takes it off.
She feels like she doesn't
want to be associated with it
and she puts it in her closet.
and never wears it again.
He's just trying to figure out
what happened to him.
And Barney doesn't
really know.
And it's got him
deeply disturbed.
[Kathleen] Betty was very
curious. She wanted
to learn more.
But Barney said. Betty.
don't tell anyone.
No good can ever come of this.
And she disagreed.
She walked to the phone
and she called my mother.
We had a neighbor
who was a physicist.
Betty was concerned
about the contamination.
And so. she asked my mother
to call our neighbor
to find out what she
and Barney should do.
He told. Betty.
if she had a compass
that she should take it out
to the car
to see how the needle reacts.
That's not going to measure
radiation.
that's going to measure
a magnetic field.
So apparently.
he knew something about UFOs
that Betty and Barney
didn't know.
Betty called my mother again.
And the former Chief of Police
of Newton. New Hampshire
was at the house
having a cup of coffee.
He was my father's
best friend.
And he said to tell Betty
that she and Barney
need to make a report
to Pease Air Force Base.
Because they had notified
all of the police departments
that if anyone had a UFO
sighting. they should
report it.
[Bryce] Peace Air Force Base
is the local air force base
in Portsmouth. New Hampshire
in 1961.
Betty and Barney know people
that are involved
in the military there.
She gets hold of somebody
at Peace Air Force Base
who takes their story in
isn't that interested in it.
Until they start talking
about the extension wings
and red lights coming out.
then he's very interested
in it.
The next day. they actually
hear from a captain
Paul Henderson at Peace
who wants to know
the whole story in detail.
So suddenly. they've told this
story that is now being
taken very seriously.
[narrator] Incredibly.
the Hills are told of another
sighting reported that night.
The officer said that
the controller at the tower
had reported
there was an unusual craft
seen on radar at 2:14 a.m.
on the night that Betty and
Barney had their experience.
[indistinct chatter]
[narrator]
Could the two be related?
[Kathleen] The following day.
my parents and my two brothers
and I drove to Portsmouth
to Betty's and Barney's home.
I was excited in anticipation
of hearing their story
for myself.
And we finally arrived there.
We went into the kitchen
with Betty.
And she told us
about the close encounter.
She told us about
the buzzing sounds.
We wanted to see the spots
on the trunk of the car.
So she took us down
the hallway
and out to the vehicle.
I could see
those very shiny spots.
And I took my finger.
And I attempted to rub
a spot off.
My mother saw me and said.
"Don't touch it.
don't touch that spot.
It might harm you."
And very quickly.
I was taken back into Betty's
and Barney's house.
It was sort of an epiphany
in the sense
that here is something
that I had no idea existed.
But suddenly. I was clued
into the fact
that it was real.
[narrator]
That epiphany will lead
Kathleen on a lifelong mission
to uncover what really
happened to her aunt
and uncle that night...
outside...
and then inside the UFO.
[narrator] Several days
after her UFO encounter.
Betty Hill visits
her local library
where she checks out
The Flying Saucer Conspiracy
by retired Marine Corps
major Donald Keyhoe.
Widely regarded
as a leading UFO expert.
major Keyhoe is a proponent
of various theories
explaining UFOs.
government cover-ups.
and the threat
of interplanetary war.
Major Keyhoe as an authority
on flying saucers.
do you yourself believe
that they exist?
Well. I'm positive they exist.
The weight of the evidence
makes it impossible to arrive
at any other conclusion.
What tangible evidence
do you have?
Well. at least 800 reports
from trained observers.
veteran pilots. radar men.
guided missile trackers.
weather bureau observers.
all people who are trained
to know things in the sky.
who describe these objects
maneuvering under
intelligent control.
There are hundreds
of those reports
where the sightings
were confirmed visually
and by radar.
and in some cases
by photograph.
[Ben]
There's kind of an evolution
that takes place with UFOs
in the United States.
In the 40s and into the 50s.
the government was primarily
concerned with the panic.
They wanted to be able
to control the reaction
of the public.
There was an official
government policy
to ridicule and debunk
and really make
the witnesses feel
as if they are the fringe.
they are the crazy ones.
And they don't deserve any
merit because people really
aren't seeing these things.
So when the. the Hill incident
happens.
it's among all of this frenzy
of UFO activity.
But yet. people don't know
how to feel about it.
[narrator] Curious to know
more about her own experience.
Betty writes to major Keyhoe.
She has begun. what will
become a lifelong search
for the truth.
What she finds
will shock the world.
Located an hour
north of Boston.
Portsmouth is New Hampshire's
oldest settlement
and only seaport.
In addition to its historic
importance.
by the 1960s.
the city and surrounding area
had become noted
for its fishing industry...
strategic military
importance...
and beautiful beaches.
[Kathleen] Betty was a child
welfare worker for the state
of New Hampshire.
She cared for other people.
She cared for children
who were being abused
by their parents or children
who were being neglected.
And then she worked
in adoption.
She was eventually promoted
to the position of supervisor.
She had an opinion
on everything.
She loved to express it.
And if you took her on
and you battled her about it.
she was even happier.
She wanted to be part
of the world.
[Kathleen] Betty met Barney at
Hampton Beach. New Hampshire.
which was very close
to her home in Portsmouth.
And she was working
during the summers down there
sometimes.
Betty had friends
in Portsmouth
and they knew Barney.
So they met
and she said to Barney.
well. I have an apartment
that I rent to tourists.
And if you and your family
ever come up here again.
I'd be happy to rent it
to you.
So it was sort of
a congenial relationship.
Barney was highly intelligent.
His IQ was 140.
He wanted to go to college
to become an engineer.
But he was told
that that was not something
that he would ever be
able to do
because of the color
of his skin.
He ended up joining the army
before the outbreak
of World War II.
He was a marksman.
He was a truck driver.
And he ended up being wounded.
He then was able to get a job
at the Post Office.
And he worked for the US
Post Office for many years.
He married. He had two sons.
But he and his wife divorced.
So this is when he began
a relationship with Betty.
[narrator] Barney eventually
moves to Portsmouth.
And after dating for a few
years. he and Betty marry.
They were one of the few mixed
marriages in Portsmouth.
Although Portsmouth this time.
there was fairly large
African-American population.
But you don't want
to think of Portsmouth
or pretty much
any New England town
as being a northern town
without racism.
I mean. systemic racism
is the name of the game
as much through New England
really as the south.
Barney was one of the people
fighting this with Betty.
He was an activist
in the NAACP.
He was doing what he could
to bring this to light.
Always leading to the idea
that to come out
as an abductee of aliens
was a huge risk on his part.
And he was very concerned
about his personality
and how he was seen
by other people.
So this was a massive risk
to him.
which I think leads
to the idea
of how much he and Betty's
story is actually.
a love story.
[narrator]
But little do they know
the UFO incident is not over
and will continue
to haunt them.
Ten days after their encounter
in the White Mountains.
Betty suffers a series
of vivid dreams
that last over five nights.
[Kathleen] In her dreams.
there was an encounter
with very human-like entities.
They surrounded the car
and then they took Betty
and Barney onto the craft
where they did highly
unusual physical examination.
[narrator] In this rare
interview from 1968.
Betty describes what happened
on board the alien craft.
First. they took Barney
into one room and I went
into a second room.
In this room. they did what
I would call a fairly simple
physical examination.
They seem to have mostly
interest in my skin.
I had the idea they were
taking pictures of my skin.
Also. interest in my hands
and my feet.
They also did a test
which they call checking
my nervous system.
Throughout
the whole examination.
it would be like picking up
some kind of a strange animal
and looking it over.
giving it a checkup
and putting it back down again
without any intentions
of harming it.
[narrator] The vivid nature
of the dreams along with
the strange buzzing sounds
are too much for Betty
to simply dismiss.
She was wondering
if. if this somehow
represented reality.
Now. she was a social worker.
She had studied psychology.
And dreams that you have
just before you wake up
in the morning
when you're sort of
in a hypnotic state
can include information
that really occurred.
Yet. there can be
fantasy added.
Betty initially jotted her
dreams down on note paper.
And she couldn't forget
about them.
And she spoke to her
supervisor who said to her.
Maybe this represents
what really happened to you
between those buzzing sounds.
And maybe this is what
happened during that period
that you can't remember.
So Betty sat down and
she typed those dreams out.
[narrator]
Betty knew she and Barney saw
something that night.
But what?
What about those
buzzing sounds?
Why did the car have those
strange shiny spots?
Could her nightmares be true?
[narrator] Betty Hill's letter
to Major Donald Keyhoe
generates interest at NICAP.
the National Investigations
Committee on Aerial Phenomena.
According to their records.
similar looking
unidentified craft
had been reported flying
over California. Kentucky
and Indiana.
NICAP in the '50s and '60s
is one of the only legitimate
and true organizations
dedicated to the scientific
study of UFOs.
Now. Project Blue Book
is the government's arm
of the air force officially
investigating.
But as a citizen group.
only NICAP and a few others
were those who brought in
scientists.
medical professionals
and had a very rigid way
of investigating these events.
[narrator]
In October. 1961. Boston-based
NICAP investigator Walter Webb
interviews the Hills
at their home in Portsmouth.
New Hampshire.
[Kathleen] Walter Webb was an
investigator for NICAP.
He wanted to know.
in as much detail as possible.
where the sighting
occurred initially.
How the craft reacted.
How this changed
as they observed it.
What Barney saw
as he stood in that field.
Walter Webb believed their
story because they didn't
enlarge on it.
They were serious
in retelling what happened.
They were consistent
in their details.
Because he interviewed them
separately before he
interviewed them together.
And so. everything meshed.
He thought that they were
reliable. intelligent
individuals.
with no reason to want to
make something like this up.
The scientific community. at
least those who are interested
in the subject. took note
that we have some very
credible witnesses here.
They're in high standing
in society.
They have a lot to lose.
And so.
given the credibility of it.
it's kind of one of the first
times that many of them
had taken note
that we should listen
to the alleged abductees.
[narrator] A few weeks later.
when another set
of investigators
question the Hills.
they make a startling
revelation.
[narrator]
What happened during those
two hours of missing time?
[Barney speaking]
[Bryce] Imagine you're
Betty and Barney.
you've seen this UFO.
you've seen these creatures
and then you begin to realize
that there's a couple hours
that are unaccounted for.
They started to get an inkling
that maybe there was more
to that two-hour period
than it first met the eye.
[narrator]
Could Betty's dreams be
nightmares of something real?
Is it possible they
were abducted by aliens
during the missing time?
Betty and Barney decide
to investigate further.
Shortly after Betty and Barney
met with Homan & Jackson.
they made trips
up to the White Mountains.
They were attempting
to remember more to jog their
memories of what had occurred.
In Betty's dreams. she
remembered a huge fiery orb
that seemed to be sitting
on the ground of a roadblock.
But she didn't know where
or when that occurred
of a dirt road with tall trees
all around.
And this was very perplexing.
[Ben]
The whole experience from the
days. the months and the years
after the event took a major
toll on their relationship.
Betty wanted to understand
this and to unlock
the secrets.
if you will. of everything
that happened.
What were the events
that were haunting her?
Barney wanted to keep quiet.
He didn't want it to affect
their public life
and his standing
in the civil rights movements
and everything
that they were involved in.
Barney was still attempting
to forget about it.
but he wouldn't.
It was really eating away at
him and was deeply troubling.
[narrator] Concerned over
a worsening ulcer.
Barney visits a psychiatrist
hoping to find relief.
[narrator] Barney prepares
to go under hypnosis.
After years of blocking out
what happened.
will Barney finally come
face-to-face with his demons?
[narrator] Two years
after the UFO encounter.
Betty and Barney Hill travel
to Boston
for a visit with one of the
country's leading experts
in regressive hypnosis.
Dr. Benjamin Simon.
Dr. Simon had earned a
reputation for himself when he
was a colonel in the army.
He developed
a special technique
using deep trance hypnosis
in order to resolve the trauma
that soldiers who were
returning from the war
had experienced.
That caused physiological
ailments.
When I snapped my finger.
you'll be able to let go
and then you'll get sleepy and
your eyes are getting heavier.
[narrator]
Is it possible that Betty and
Barney were experiencing
post-traumatic stress
after their UFO encounter?
And could Dr. Simon help them?
In a rare interview. Dr. Simon
discusses his treatment
of the Hills.
[narrator]
Over the next six months.
both Betty and Barney undergo
a series of treatments.
During these sessions.
Dr. Simon induces them
into a deep trance.
Now. clasp your hands in front
of you tight. tight. tight.
tight. tight. tighter.
As they get tighter.
you're going to sleep.
You're going to a deep.
deep sleep.
Your eyes are getting heavy.
They're closing.
They're closing tight.
Now. your hands are relaxed.
We're going back.
We're going back to September
19th. 1961. when you were
returning from your vacation.
We're going back to September
19th. 1961.
[narrator]
While under hypnosis.
Barney recalls everything
in his conscious memory.
including the drive
through the White Mountains
and seeing the strange light
up in the sky.
But when he gets to the part
about standing out in a field
and seeing a UFO.
a mental block forms.
a panic sets in.
When Dr. Simon pushes Barney
to go beyond
that mental block
that he had developed.
Barney says. "Please. doctor.
don't make me go there.
please don't let me
remember that."
And Dr. Simon said.
"You will remember that.
It won't hurt you now."
[Dr. Simon] Calm down.
Barney had a very explosive
what's called an abreaction.
where he released a great deal
of emotion.
[narrator] Dr. Simon guides
Barney past his mental block.
where he recalls for the first
time a powerful force
controlling him.
[Bryce] Listening to Barney
is very difficult.
He's hysterical.
He's screaming.
He is reliving the most
terrifying moments
of his entire life.
This is a man
that was in World War II.
[narrator] Later. during
another hypnosis session.
Barney recalls hearing
the mysterious beeps
and what happens next.
Suddenly. he's driving.
and he's driving.
And he makes a turn.
And he says. "I don't know
why I had to make that turn."
And then he finds himself
on a dirt road with tall trees
all around.
There's a fiery orb
that he sees.
And he sees these entities
standing in the road dressed
in shiny black uniforms.
And then Barney says.
it's them.
It's the ones I saw when
I was standing in the field
looking through binoculars.
[narrator] As the entities
close in on the car.
this time. there is no escape.
[narrator] In early 1964.
two years
after her UFO encounter.
Betty Hill also undergoes
hypnosis designed to recall
what happened that night.
Under hypnosis. Betty
remembers everything that
she had conscious recall for.
And then she remembers
Barney taking a sharp turn
in the road
and they were then
on a dirt road with tall trees
all around.
There were figures standing
in the road.
And she observed
this huge fiery orb.
And she's talking to Barney.
what is this?
Are we being robbed?
Is there an accident ahead?
Barney says to Betty.
"It's them."
Betty becomes terrified.
She has never been so
terrified in her entire life.
She puts her hand on the door.
She's going to run
into the woods to hide.
but she's intercepted
and she loses consciousness.
[narrator]
The next thing Betty remembers
is the alien beings escorting
her through the woods
and onto the spacecraft.
[Kathleen] They're saying to
Betty. there's nothing to be
afraid of.
we only need to do
a few simple tests.
you won't be harmed
and then you'll very quickly
be on your way.
She doesn't trust them.
She kicks the one
who is beside her...
and this tears the hem
on her dress down...
and tears the lining of the
dress from waist to hemline.
They've regained control
of her.
And she is taken into an
examining room on the craft.
[narrator] That's where Betty
meets someone she calls
the Examiner.
They use some kind of stylus
pressing on the vertebrae
in her spine.
They take skin samples.
[sobbing]
[narrator]
And then it was Barney's turn.
[narrator] While under
hypnosis. Barney Hill recalls
how after being abducted
by entities.
he too was subjected
to a physical examination.
Barney is placed on a table
and his clothes removed.
They are interested in his
muscular structure as well.
In his nervous system.
he's rolled over.
He can feel what seems to be
something pushing along
the vertebrae in his spine.
[Kathleen] Something slid
very easily
into Barney's rectum
and then was removed
very rapidly.
It wasn't painful.
Then kind of a cup-like
device was placed
over his genitals.
There was apparently
a sperm sample taken.
[narrator]
And then it was over.
After completing
their examinations.
the entities escort
the Hills off the ship
and back to their car.
[narrator] It is the most
extraordinary story
Dr. Simon has ever heard.
[Betty] I've never been
so afraid in my life.
[narrator]
Were these made-up memories?
Or did Barney and Betty
really get abducted by aliens?
[Bryce] Dr. Simon felt
that the best explanation
might very well be
that the two of them
had had some kind of
transference between them
allowing them to sort of
create and build the story
that Betty might have
had a stronger feeling
about this
and her memories or dreams
contaminated Barney's memories
or dreams.
But he wasn't accusing
them of hoaxing.
He just felt that it was
a psychological condition.
[narrator] While grateful
for the chance to tell their
stories through hypnosis.
Betty and Barney disagree
with Dr. Simon's conclusions.
They believe their independent
accounts or further
confirmation
that what they experienced
was real.
[Kathleen]
They couldn't go along
with Dr. Simon's suggestions
that this had to be Barney's
absorbing Betty's dreams.
And so. Barney just accepted
it as real.
And he felt a lot better
because he had military
officers
who were encouraging him.
who were telling him
that. yes. all of these things
are true
that we know there are
extraterrestrial craft coming
to visit our planet.
And there's no reason
to believe
that they're not
visiting humans.
And so.
Barney felt much better.
[narrator] While the Hills
are comforted that the truth
has come to light.
they're determined
to keep it private.
Little do they know.
it's impossible to keep the
first and greatest abduction
story ever told.
secret for long.
By the fall of 1965.
four years have passed since
the Hill's UFO encounter.
Their hypnosis sessions
too were in the past.
Barney was now feeling better.
And so. he and Betty had moved
on with their lives.
[Kathleen] Barney was still
so involved
in the civil rights movement
and his speaking engagements.
Because that was what
he was really truly fighting
for. was civil rights.
[narrator]
But then. in October...
their lives turn upside down
once again
when theBoston Traveler
prints a five-part series
detailing the Hill's UFO
sighting and hypnosis
sessions.
[Kathleen] It was
a huge story.
It ran for five days
in the newspaper.
Betty and Barney were
extremely distressed.
The Boston Traveler
newspaper series.
it blew the cover off
the story
that they've been telling
a small group of people
to a large group of people.
When I first heard
about the story.
I couldn't imagine that
somebody would either come up
with that or lie about it
for several years.
and meet with Air Force
officials and just make up
a story.
I mean. why would somebody
do that?
And especially. two Portsmouth
people who were very
respectable and respected.
There was a violation
of confidentiality in 1965.
John Luttrell who was
a reporter for theBoston
Traveler in Boston
had received
confidential information
from a friend of Betty's.
And this woman had told him
everything that she knew
about the encounter
and the hypnosis.
He contacted Betty and Barney
and wanted to interview them.
Betty and Barney said. no. we
do not want this story told.
[narrator]
In this rare interview.
award-winning investigative
reporter John Luttrell
explains why he went ahead
with the story.
These people deserved every
single consideration.
But then. where do you draw
the line
between maintaining a certain
degree of personal privacy
or the public's right to know?
And in making this decision.
it had to be made abundantly
clear to all of the readers
that number one.
the Hills themselves
did not initiate this
with theBoston Traveler.
They have not chosen to talk
about any of the incidents
at all.
[narrator] The sensational
tale of an alien abduction
thrusts Betty and Barney
into the public spotlight.
This had an impact
not only on Betty and Barney.
but on the entire family.
We were a very respectable
family who had many
accomplishments.
And we sat down and we talked
about how should we handle
this?
Where will we go from here?
And we decided as a family
that since it did
in fact happen
and since the story had
been told that Betty and
Barney should tell the truth.
[narrator] Unable to avoid
the intense media spotlight.
the Hills cooperate
with author John Fuller
in the writing
ofThe Interrupted Journey:
Two Lost Hours
Aboard a Flying Saucer.
[Kathleen] The Interrupted
Journey
went worldwide.
It was aNew York Times
bestseller.
There was a tremendous
amount of public interest.
[Bryce]
They literally shook the world
when their story came out.
In today's terms.
The Interrupted Journey
was like the final movie
in the AvengersSaga.
I mean. it was huge.
I mean. everybody
knew about it.
It was a book club selection.
It was excerpted in newspapers
around the country.
People couldn't get enough
of it.
[screaming]
Betty's story. which is
so dramatically told
in which she's talking
to the aliens.
There's all these things
that are going on.
This story wrote itself.
[Bryce] What makes
the Betty and
Barney case so extraordinary
is it's just a case
about first.
They were the first Americans
to claim to be abducted.
It's the first time
that anyone had missing time.
[indistinct]
It's the first time that
hypnosis was used
to regress people
to recover those memories.
And it's also the first time
that anyone had described
the aliens
as what is now popularly
known as the greys.
So Betty and Barney
really just laid the template
out there.
[narrator] The story explodes
into popular culture
when book excerpts are
reprinted inLook Magazine.
You got to remember that
if this is not like today.
it's not like we each have
our own radio station
and our own podcast and our
own TV channel that we watch
exclusively.
There was minimum amount
of media.
And so. they end up
inLook Magazine.
That's huge.
The book release changed
Betty's and Barney's lives.
because Barney had been
appointed to the US Civil
Rights Commission.
He also was very actively
involved in politics.
as was Betty.
And they had to put
those activities aside
for the time being.
And to publicize this book.
they took time off from work.
So that they could travel
to do television shows.
-What is your name. please?
-My name is Barney Hill.
And they did many.
many radio shows as well.
My name is Barney Hill.
This was kind of exciting
to our family.
Because at that point.
we believed that finally
this was being acknowledged
as real.
Which one of these
three gentlemen in truth
is Barney Hill?
Will the real Barney Hill
please stand up?
[applauding]
[narrator] The publicity
surrounding the abduction
brings out a number
of skeptics
who refuse to believe the
Hills. leaving many to wonder.
what really happened?
It's a question Kathleen
has been trying to answer
since she was a teenager.
For the past 40 years. Betty
and Barney's niece Kathleen
has been investigating
the truth behind
the Hill abduction.
[Kathleen] I decided
to investigate
this story
because I was hearing
about it on television.
I was reading about it
in magazine articles
and newspaper articles.
But what I was reading was not
consistent with my memories
of what actually occurred.
[narrator] In the process.
she has uncovered classified
documents kept secret
and a government conspiracy
to hide the truth.
I wanted to look at the
Project Blue Book documents
that had been recorded
at Pease Air Force Base.
but also the documents
that went to headquarters.
I wanted to find any evidence
of further investigation
that was done by the Air Force
and further documentation.
I found that a false letter
was written in 1963
that contradicted
the results of Betty's
and Barney's statements
in the Project Blue Book
report.
Betty and Barney talked about
the movement of the craft.
how it moved erratically
in a zigzag fashion.
how it swooped down.
So I wanted to compare that
to what was written in 1963.
In '63. it said that it was a
star-like object at all times
and that there
was no movement.
And so. that was just a lie.
Over the years. there's
certainly been a lot of debate
back and forth
about why doesn't
the government just tell us
what it knows.
And the government has said.
"Well. there's really nothing
to see here"
and tried to minimize it.
And it's even worse
on the abduction phenomenon.
which nobody seems to.
to want to talk about
on an official capacity.
And it's really not a surprise
because why would they.
if what happened to Betty
and Barney has been repeated
hundreds. thousands or tens of
thousands of times since 1961.
What that says is we have
a really out of control
situation going on.
One of the greatest pieces
of evidence that the Betty
and Barney Hill case
could so desperately use would
be a bunch of witnesses
saying. I saw that thing too.
And that is what
the original reporter
for the Boston Traveler.
John Luttrell thought he had.
[narrator] In 1976. John
Luttrell admitted to
interviewing these witnesses
in a letter to nuclear
physicist
and UFO investigator.
Stanton Friedman.
Before Stanton Friedman passed
away. he gave me a letter
written by John Luttrell.
And John Luttrell spoke
of 12 to 14 people
in the White Mountains
who had observed a craft
by the same description
on the same night
in the same time frame
that Betty and Barney
saw this.
His editors didn't feel that
that needed to be included
in the five articles
that he wrote in 1965.
Well. when Luttrell left
the Boston Traveler.
he actually gave the file
to his editor with
all those witnesses in it.
And guess what?
That file has disappeared.
[narrator] Perhaps the most
compelling clue
is the dress Betty wore
the night of her abduction.
[Kathleen] She had placed it
in her closet.
And the next time she took it
out. she thought about
throwing the dress away.
But on second thought.
she thought she would keep it
because it might hold a clue
to what happened that night.
[Ben] Over the years.
several tests
have been done on this dress.
where there are areas where
it appears there are stains.
Now. some of these results
indicate that there's an
organic material of some sort.
But it wasn't until recently
when I re-examined the dress
that I found something
very. very peculiar.
Now. we knew about several
stains from the outside.
But as I turn the dress
inside out.
there's an inner lining to it.
where I found a series
of three spots.
What's that from?
The location of the stains
is important
because some might say
that it's. you know. residue
from female menstruation.
for example.
But this area was higher up.
It's higher in the abdomen
and pretty much
where I would expect
if the story is true
that a needle was inserted.
You've got different bodily
fluids that would have
leaked out.
But from the inside.
staining the lining
of the dress on the inside
and not going through
to the outside.
We've confirmed that this
fluid does belong to Betty.
and that she put this dress
away and never wore it again.
To me. this is consistent with
the procedure of having put
the clothing back on
or wearing it through
the procedure and indicating
it happened as she said.
[Bryce] It seems pretty clear
what the aliens were doing
based on the regression
tapes and the testimony
of Betty and Barney.
They're taking a sperm sample
from Barney.
They're testing Betty
to see if she's pregnant.
Obviously. there's
a reproductive issue
that's being looked into.
But they're also scraping
skin samples.
It's clearly a medical exam.
It seems like they want to
know more about our biology.
Why else would they be
conducting medical
experiments?
It seems like they don't
have all the answers.
So. do they keep coming back?
Have they gotten
what they want?
Do they know everything
they need to know?
Or is there a further motive?
[narrator] In the 1970s.
the controversy surrounding
the Hill abduction explodes
in the media once more.
This time.
when a schoolteacher in Ohio
claims the Hill story is real
and she knows
where the aliens came from.
[narrator] One unanswered
question has always been.
where did these entities
come from?
[Bryce] During her dreams
and during hypnosis.
Betty Hill described
seeing a star map
that one of the alien
creatures had showed her
a map.
a destination map of the
routes that had been traveled.
She said to the Leader.
"I know you're not from
around here.
Where's your home port?"
And he produced this
three-dimensional star map.
[narrator] Under instructions
from Dr. Simon.
Betty later reproduced the map
from memory.
Then in 1974. the school
teacher in Ohio claims to have
deciphered the map
and located the star system
where the entities originated.
Marjorie Fish was a brilliant
woman from Ohio.
She had studied biology
in college.
And she was an amateur
astronomer. a member of Mensa.
Meaning that she had
a very high IQ.
She saw Betty's star map
in the first book
that was written
about the abduction.
And she was interested in it.
She was skeptical.
But she thought that
if this place really did exist
in our galaxy.
that she'd be able to find it.
[narrator] In order
to understand the perspective
from which the map was drawn.
Fish constructed an elaborate
3D model using fishing line
and colored beads.
[Marjorie] I set up
a number of criteria
when I started the search.
One was that the sun
had to be in the pattern
and it had be one of the stars
with a line to it.
Because the one Betty called
the Leader had said.
"Where are you in the map
and indicating that the sun
was in the map?"
[Kathleen] And this
was difficult in those days.
She didn't have a computer.
She had to hand copy
all of the distance data
that was available
on the stars in our local
galactic neighborhood.
And the properties
of those stars
out 54 light years from
our sun in every direction.
In all.
she constructed 14 models.
She still didn't have a match.
But there was a new catalog
that was released.
She took the new distance
data back.
She constructed a model.
She found a match.
[Marjorie] I had all 12 points
plus three background stars.
And at this point. I was very
elated and very happy.
I didn't sleep at all
that night.
[narrator]
According to her evidence.
the beings that abducted the
Hills came from Zeta Reticuli.
a binary star system located
39 light years from Earth.
What we know about these stars
is that they're very similar
to our sun.
They're called main
sequence stars.
And so. they're the right age.
the right temperature.
If there are planets revolving
around them.
they could be at the perfect
what we call goldilocks.
you know. distance.
where they could support life.
[Kathleen]
We may never know for certain
if there is indeed life on
planets around Zeta Reticuli
one and two.
But there is a good
possibility that there is.
We have discovered that
that area of space
that these extraterrestrials
allegedly came from
is rich in exoplanets.
[Betty] For a long. long time.
I had the feeling
that I had sort of lived
through a tragedy in some way.
And sometimes. even now.
I still have this feeling.
Because it's something
that's haunting.
It's something
that's always on my mind.
No matter where I go
or what I do.
It's the last thing I think
of when I go to bed at night.
And it's the first thing
I think of in the morning
when I wake up.
And I expect
it'll probably be that way
for the rest of my life.
Of course after this happened.
there's no doubt in my mind
that these are real solid
crafts and they're astronauts
from another solar system
because they told me
so themselves.
[narrator] Today. six decades
after their UFO encounter...
Betty Hill and her husband.
Barney are no longer with us.
They are buried together
beside Betty's sister. Janet
in a small picturesque
cemetery in Kingston.
New Hampshire.
[Jim] These were
two people. long ago.
who lived in Portsmouth...
who have now passed on.
But they've left us
with a message of something
they experienced.
There are aliens out there
who may be visiting us.
might not be harmful.
might want to know about us.
might want to examine us...
and may just want to be
inquisitive about
what we're about.
And maybe someday.
who knows when.
But maybe someday.
they're going to say
hello.
[Betty] The good question is.
why are they coming here?
I don't think the government
knows any more than we do.
They're just as puzzled
as we are.
I mean. we know they're here.
We know there are beings
on board.
We don't know
why they're here.
[conversation over PA]
[narrator] This question of
why recently resurfaced
following the 2017 release of
the so-called Tic-tac video.
These images
of a purported UFO
were captured
by a navy fighter jet
and radar on board
the nuclear-powered aircraft
carrier. USS Nimitz.
[conversation over PA]
Peace Air Force Base located
in Portsmouth. New Hampshire.
in 1961.
was the home
of the Strategic Air Command.
And that's where the bombers
with the nuclear bombs
were housed.
A few years earlier. in 1947.
the Strategic Air Command
bombers were held at Roswell.
So UFOs. aliens.
nuclear weapons
kind of have this thing where
they're brought together.
which would make me say.
it's one reason to believe
that the Betty and Barney case
might not be random.
but might be something
that's related to that
since they lived very close
to this nuclear bomber base.
[narrator]
Six decades after risking
their reputations and careers.
many. no longer view Betty
and Barney Hill as frauds.
but as heroes.
After UFOs are generally
acknowledged.
you can call that disclosure
or whatever you want
to call it.
But when the world is finally
saying. yeah. these things
are real.
then the history books are
going to have to be rewritten.
Betty and Barney Hill.
they're going to be in
history books.
[Ben] I always remind people.
when I hear the skepticism of.
well. there's no physical
evidence.
you could have
a murder conviction
from one or two very credible
witnesses of seeing an event.
Imagine the implications
of that or someone goes
to prison or is put to death.
Yet. we ridicule somebody
who says
that they had a very
fantastical story
of a UFO report.
But. yet. this same
credibility exists
with these witnesses.
I think we should
start listening.
[Kathleen] I think
that if Betty
and Barney were alive today.
they would be satisfied that
they had been vindicated.
We know so much more
scientifically than we knew
in that time frame.
And Betty's and Barney's
knowledge was consistent
with what we understand today.
I'm Betty Hill.
and my husband. Barney
and I were the first persons
on this planet
to be abducted by astronauts
from another solar system.